# IS6813
This is a repository for my MSBA program. It is a group project for Swire Coca-Cola and we are trying to understand why customers abandon their cart based on their behaviors. 
## Business Problem
Swire created a new website for users to checkout items called myCoke360. Currently, they experience many customers who add items to their cart, but they do not purchase those items by their next order date. This cart abandonment leads to a loss of revenue for the company, and they are unaware of what behaviors cause this abandonment. 
## Solution
Our solution was to create a logistic regression model with engineered features of the user actions summarized. This gave us an AUC score of 0.895. This model reached the highest score, besides our random forest model that we believe is overfit. We found that heavy browsing without checking out and removing after adding were our highest risk predictors of cart abandonment. Browsing without taking steps to checkout made a user 26 times more likely to abandon their cart, while removing after adding made a user 4.5 times more likely. Other behaviors that made customers be at higher risk of abandonment were the amount of times a user updated their cart and the amount of times the user removed items. We recommended to add a personalized live chat, need help pop-up, save cart, or send items to email. We believe adding functions like these to the website will help limit these behaviors and lower cart abandonment. We also suggested to include a customer's sales history when intervening to be sure to save customers that produced the greatest revenue for the company. Targeting customers that are the greatest risk of abandonment and produce revenue for the company will be the most cost efficient way for the company to go about this problem. 
## Contribution
I assisted in the cleaning and preprocessing of the data. I also helped create the final joined dataset with the order windows. I created many of the basic models to know which ones we should explore further. I also coordinated all of the group meetings and created the powerpoint. 
## Business Value
Although we were unable to determine how much revenue could be saved by our efforts, we did find actionable insights. The overall abandonment rate was about 3%, when we looked at the top 10% of carts that our model labeled as high risk, we could account for 17% of all carts that were abandoned. This was 14 point lift, which can be used by the company to not waste resources on those that are not at the highest risk of abandonment. 
## Challenges
There were several data issues that we had to work through. We had to clean the data to ensure it was being captured correctly. This included things like changing fields to characters, parsing dates, and other tiny tweaks to make sure that data was read and captured accurately. The cut-off times for an order window are tied to the office or plant and not customers. Some rows were invalid, so we had to default the cutoff to 5:00 pm in those cases. In addition to that, we had to be careful because the order windows or policies of customers can change. Taking the correct snapshot of an event for the given customer to ensure abandonment and churns are recorded accurately. This was the biggest challenge we faced. 
## What I learned
I learned how to navigate large and messy data. It was critical for my education to be able to work with real world data to prepare me for what is next. I learned for my team members how to think outside of the box when creating engineered features rather than only using what is given. I also learned how important it is to be able to explain your results and recommendations in a way that can make sense to everyone in the room. 
